General Structure & Purpose - Inclusive Policy
Adheres to:
Australian laws
Australian English
Disability act
1. Objective & Scope: What is the purpose of this policy, and who does it impact? How does it
promote inclusivity?
2. Commitment to Inclusion: How does this policy ensure equitable access and participation for
all individuals, including those from marginalised or underrepresented groups?
3. Legal & Ethical Considerations: Does this policy align with relevant laws (e.g.,
anti-discrimination, accessibility, employment equity)?
Language & Communication
4. Plain Language: Is the policy written in clear, accessible language free from jargon and
unnecessary complexity?
5. Bias-Free Wording: Does the policy use gender-neutral, non-stigmatising, and culturally
sensitive language?
6. Multiple Formats: Is the policy available in accessible formats (e.g., large print, Braille, Easy
Read, and multiple languages)?
Implementation & Accessibility
7. Workplace Adjustments: How does the policy support reasonable accommodations for
employees with disabilities or unique needs?
8. Cultural Competency: Does the policy acknowledge and respect diverse cultural practices,
languages, and experiences?
9. Digital & Physical Accessibility: Are digital platforms, physical spaces, and materials inclusive
and usable by all, including people with disabilities?
Accountability & Compliance
10. Monitoring & Reporting: How will compliance with this policy be tracked, and who is
responsible?
11. Complaint & Feedback Mechanism: is there a clear, safe, and responsive process for
reporting concerns related to inclusivity?*
12. Continuous Improvement: How often will this policy be reviewed and updated to reflect best
practices in inclusion?
●
Ensure your policies are kind and respectful. Uses language that makes no assumptions
about intellect, ability, or educational status of a person unless that educational status is
a requirement for the role.
●
Ensure your policies uses human-centred language. This means, that your language
must put the person and their needs above the needs of the organisation.
-
Identifies reasonable adjustments where appropriate.
-
Mentions supports available to people who work there or provides an accessible link to
internal or external supports.
-
Provides clear guidelines about how dispute are resolved, or complaints handled.
-
Where a concept is complex or needs to be clearly understood, like in a bullying and
harassment policy, that case studies are used to provide clarity and context.
-
Consider seeking comments from people with lived experience when developing policies
that impact historically marginalised or radicalised people.
-
Ensure your language is clear and concise. This means that you haven't left it open to
interpretation.
-
Ensure your language is respectful and not divisive.
-
Ensure that everyone who works in your organisation can see themselves through your
policies.
-
Ensure that your policies are written for everyone no matter their expertise or level within
the organisation. This means that your policies should be understood by entry level team
members and management alike, especially when there is the expectation that everyone
within the organisation must have read and understood said document.
-
Ensure all policies genuinely seeks to include everyone no matter their race, gender
ability, age, socio-economic background, health status, religion and sexuality.