Inclusive policy writing checklist:
This checklist help organisations to write their policies inclusively. Leading to improved engagement and retention. 
Uses language that makes no stereotypes about gender, sexuality, race, ethnicity, religion, disability, age and so forth.
Does not assume that people are working full time in a face-to-face capacity. This means that your policy must reflect the diversity of your workforce, including remote workers, casual or contractors and flex workers.
Does not assume that people are working in the office for all or part of the time. 
Takes account of the fact that some people may be using assistive technologies, eg screen readers or Dragon. 
Does not assume that people can hear or see.
Does not assume that people are equally mobile, and do not use mobility aids such as wheelchairs.
Uses language that makes no assumptions about intellect or educational status.
Uses human-centred language. This means, that your language must put the person and their needs above the needs of the organisation. 
Identifies reasonable adjustments where appropriate. 
Mentions supports available to people who work there or provides an accessible link to internal or external supports. 
Provides clear guidelines about how dispute are resolved, or complaints handled.
Where a concept is complex or needs to be clearly understood,  like in a bullying and harassment policy, that case studies are used to provide clarity and context.
Consider seeking comments from people with lived experience when developing policies that impact historically marginalised or racialised people. 
Ensure your language is clear and concise. This means that you haven't left it open to interpretation. 
Ensure your language is respectful and not divisive.
Ensure that everyone who works in your organisation can see themselves through your policies. 
Ensure that your policies are written for everyone no matter their expertise or level within the organisation. This means that your policies should be understood by entry level team members and management alike.
Ensure all policies genuinely seeks to include everyone no matter their race, gender  ability, age, socio-economic background, health status, religion and sexuality. 
